Could you tell me how you understand this world?
[00:01:21] VICKY HOGAN: I could, if I tried. I know a lot about the world. If I could understand every single thing I would. But it just doesn't make sense. And that's why I started writing this book. There's got to be something that makes sense. That's what's got me thinking.
[00:01:34] But it just doesn't make sense when I look out here. So why are these people here? How did they get here? And how did this thing called consciousness just show up? And it's just like, this is just crazy, and I can't understand how people can just go on like this. So I had this story. I had this journey that was going on. This story that I wanted to write about it. But I wasn't being able to understand it or understand how it happened or why it happened. And that's what I had to put on paper. So what's this? That book.  Like I just want it to be here. This is the best way that I know.
[00:02:05] MICHAEL BAUER: Well, and so there's something that really is amazing is how you put the word consciousness right into everything. Like you've seen the words and there are so many people who say it as an explanation but I really don't think they understand what they're saying.
[00:02:21] They're using the word as a synonym for something else like, I'm thinking of something where it's, "What if this is consciousness?"
[00:02:25] Or "What if there is consciousness?" And it's like, "OK, what does it mean to be conscious?" And they're like, "How do you mean to be conscious?" And what is consciousness?
[00:02:33] They're just coming up with some vague definitions. It's like, I don't want to say I am a fish, but that's all the information I give myself. Is that, I am a fish. I have a fish head. I have a fish body. I have an ocean, I have fish water in the ocean. That's my fish body. And that's all I need.
[00:02:51] If I want to say I'm conscious I can say, I'm conscious of my fish body. That's consciousness. It just, my brain processes that information and says I'm conscious of my fish body. And so there's a definition of that in every language, and I can look it up for you in every language. That's how it's done. It's, it's in my fish.  It's all in me, I am a fish. And so that's how we see it.
[00:03:16] It's not like the words are all making the same meaning. They're just all giving different information.
[00:03:20] MICHAEL BAUER: But they're all saying the same thing about consciousness.
[00:03:22] VICKY HOGAN: Yeah, but like they're saying a lot of different things, but at the same time, they're all like, "There is something that's very important," or that there is something that's, I don't want to say there's something that's in front of our brains. I don't want to say it's in our brains. There's just something. And I think we all want to believe, I think everyone wants to say that there is something out there.
[00:03:47] But there is not something that just has to be there in order for us to be conscious. There is something that just needs to be there. I think that's why, because it just doesn't make sense. It's not logical. And I don't want to be a fish or a dog or whatever it is that you're going to the bottom of the ocean or whatever. Like it's just so hard to understand.
[00:04:07] VICKY HOGAN: So one of my thoughts was, when I think of consciousness, I think of the things that matter, the things that matter most. And I think about the things we can't explain in any way. And I think about these things that are happening to you. You can't explain. These things happen. I can't explain.
[00:04:25] I can't explain. So if you can't explain, maybe it's just a spiritual reality. I know what I'm saying. I can't explain it. I can't, like, my brain is the only thing that can explain it. And if you can't explain it, then I can't explain it.
[00:04:43] So you can't explain it. It just doesn't make sense. And this